Configuration Section (#32)
directus/docs: content/11.configuration/14.theming.md

---
description: Configuration of the Data Studio's theming engine and appearance settings.
---

# Theming

> The Directus Data Studio has been developed with customization and extensibility in mind. Colors and styles referenced within the codebase are based around theme rules which makes it easy to make comprehensive styling changes to the Data Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Directus Data Studio has been developed with customization and extensibility in mind. Colors and styles referenced within the codebase are based around theme rules which enables making comprehensive styling changes to the Data Studio.
```

What do you think?

Author: Yes!

- **Public Foreground** — Adds image on the public page's right-pane _(max-width 400px)_.
- **Public Background** — Adds image displayed behind the public foreground image, shown full-bleed within the public page's right-pane. When a public background image is not set, the project color is used instead.
- **Public Favicon** — Adds favicon for the Data Studio.
- **Public Note** — A helpful note displayed at the bottom of the public page's right-pane, supports markdown for rich-text formatting.
- **Default Appearance** — Light or Dark theme (or based on system preference).

## Theming Defaults

The Directus Theming Engine contains a few customizable themes including a Light Theme and Dark Theme. If default values are changed, they will be automatically mapped to the correct elements in the Data Studio, even between upgrades.

Both themes can be updated for all users (in the Settings Module), or for specific users (in the Users Module).

<!-- TODO: move to product-team ![Theming options showing a yellow color theme and serif font throughout.](https://marketing.directus.app/assets/6f4a2cb4-2998-4fcd-bac2-17e6bf8f81a4.png) -->

> Any valid CSS values will be accepted by the Directus Theming Engine. The raw JSON values containing your changes can be seen by clicking the dropdown next to the theme customization labels. These can be saved and easily applied between projects or users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any valid CSS values will be accepted by the Directus Theming Engine. The raw JSON values containing your changes can be seen by clicking the dropdown next to the theme customization labels. These can be saved and quickly applied between projects or users.
```

### Custom CSS

> The Custom CSS input allows you to override the Data Studio's default styling. Be aware that the Data Studio's core code, and therefore its DOM selectors, may change in any release. These updates are not considered a breaking change.

Reviewer: I wonder if the latter sentences should be in an info/warning box?

Author: I don't think so - I think it's just context.

Reviewer: Makes sense!

Since Data Studio styles are inserted/removed whenever a component is rendered, you'll need to be aware of CSS priority. Using
`:root` or `body` likely isn't scoped enough, you'll need to define a more specific scope, such as `#app`, or use `!important`.

```css
body {
	--family-sans-serif: 'Comic Sans MS';
	--primary: MediumSlateBlue !important;
}
```

This example is better served using the Theming Engine, but is a good example of Directus' flexibility of approach.

#### Action Styling

The `--primary` variable (and its shades) control call-to-actions and all other elements within the App using the
"Directus Purple". While it may be tempting to override this variable with your brand's color, please first review the
following warnings:

- Avoid using yellow, orange, or red hues that give a sense of "danger".
- Avoid low-contrast colors like yellows, grays, etc, that might not be easily visible.

> - Avoid low-saturation colors like black, which might not properly highlight call-to-actions.

Reviewer: Love this!!
